The Analyze CHOP looks at the values of all the values of a channel, and outputs a single-number result into the output. The output is one sample long. It can analyze for maximum, average, peaks and other aspects of a channel.

Parameters - Analyze Page
Function function - ⊞ - This menu determines the function applied to the channel.

Allow Start Peaks allowstart - If the values of the first 2 samples are v0 and v1, if v0 > v1, count it as a peak. The default is to never count the first sample as a peak.

Allow End Peaks allowend - If the values of the last 2 samples are vn and vm, if vm > vn, count it as a peak. The default is to never count the last sample as a peak.

No Peak Value nopeakvalue - When no peaks are found, make this number (default is -1) the result that is output. When the Function is set to Peak Index or Peak Value, it is a way to detect that no peaks were found.

Analyze Valleys vs Peaks valleys - Analyze instead for the First Valley, Highest Valley, and Lowest Valley, when the corresponding Function menu options are chosen.



Parameters - Common Page
Time Slice timeslice - Turning this on forces the channels to be "Time Sliced". A Time Slice is the time between the last cook frame and the current cook frame.

Scope scope - To determine which channels get affected, some CHOPs use a Scope string on the Common page. See Pattern Matching.

Sample Rate Match srselect - ⊞ - Handle cases where multiple input CHOPs' sample rates are different. When Resampling occurs, the curves are interpolated according to the Interpolation Method Option, or "Linear" if the Interpolate Options are not available.

Export Method exportmethod - ⊞ - This will determine how to connect the CHOP channel to the parameter. Refer to the Export article for more information.

Export Root autoexportroot - This path points to the root node where all of the paths that exporting by Channel Name is Path:Parameter are relative to.

Export Table exporttable - The DAT used to hold the export information when using the DAT Table Export Methods (See above).

Rename from commonrenamefrom - The channel pattern to rename. See Pattern Matching.

Rename to commonrenameto - The replacement pattern for the names. The default parameters do not rename the channels. See Pattern Replacement.
Example:

Channel Names: c[1-10:2] ambient
Rename From: c* ambient
Rename To: b[1-5] amb
This example fetches channels c1 c3 c5 c7 c9 and ambient.

They are then renamed to to b1 b2 b3 b4 b5 and amb.

See the Rename CHOP for a further description of rename patterns.



Operator Inputs
Input 0: -


Info CHOP Channels
Extra Information for the Analyze CHOP can be accessed via an Info CHOP.

Common CHOP Info Channels
start - Start of the CHOP interval in samples.
length - Number of samples in the CHOP.
sample_rate - The samplerate of the channels in frames per second.
num_channels - Number of channels in the CHOP.
time_slice - 1 if CHOP is Time Slice enabled, 0 otherwise.
export_sernum - A count of how often the export connections have been updated.
Common Operator Info Channels
total_cooks - Number of times the operator has cooked since the process started.
cook_time - Duration of the last cook in milliseconds.
cook_frame - Frame number when this operator was last cooked relative to the component timeline.
cook_abs_frame - Frame number when this operator was last cooked relative to the absolute time.
cook_start_time - Time in milliseconds at which the operator started cooking in the frame it was cooked.
cook_end_time - Time in milliseconds at which the operator finished cooking in the frame it was cooked.
cooked_this_frame - 1 if operator was cooked this frame.
warnings - Number of warnings in this operator if any.
errors - Number of errors in this operator if any.
