The Filter CHOP smooths or sharpens the input channels. It filters by combining each sample and a range of its neighbor samples to set the new value of that sample. Each filter type uses its own weighting factors for the neighboring samples. The Filter Width determines the number of neighbors to use.

The default Gaussian filter nicely smooths out data, typically with a Filter Width around .3 seconds. The Box Filter is interesting when your inputs are step changes to new values: the values linearly interpolate to the new value.

It is useful to follow the Filter CHOP with a Trail CHOP and connect the filtered and pre-filtered signal to its inputs.

If you want to pass one or more channels in, each with multi-samples, and you want to filter each sample as if each sample was its own filter, turn on the Filter per Sample parameter.

For a similar, more-abrupt effect, see the Lag CHOP.

The Filter CHOP can filter both motion and sound, but other CHOPs are more appropriate for filtering sound (see the Audio Filter CHOP, Band EQ CHOP, and Parametric EQ CHOP).

Notes on the One Euro Filter
The one Euro Filter is especially useful when a person is in an interaction loop with TouchDeigner and wants quick response: It responds quickly to large changes in value, and it smooths out jitters in the input:

Cutoff Frequency: Decrease it if slow speed jitter is a problem.
Slope Cutoff Frequency: Avoids high derivative bursts caused by jitter. (The research paper implementation fixes this value to 1Hz but defaults to )
Speed Coefficient: Increase if high speed lag is a problem.
The 1 € filter ("one Euro filter") is a simple algorithm to filter noisy signals for high precision and responsiveness. It uses a first order low-pass filter with an adaptive cutoff frequency: at low speeds, a low cutoff stabilizes the signal by reducing jitter, but as speed increases, the cutoff is increased to reduce lag. The algorithm is easy to implement, uses very few resources, and with two easily understood parameters, it is easy to tune. In a comparison with other filters, the 1 € filter has less lag using a reference amount of jitter reduction. (researchgate.net)

Here is a procedure to tune the One Euro filter: First Speed Coefficient is set to 0 and Cutoff Frequency to a reasonable middle-ground value such as 1 Hz. Then the body part is held steady or moved at a very low speed while Slope Cutoff Frequency is adjusted to remove jitter and preserve an acceptable lag during these slow movements (decreasing Slope Cutoff Frequency reduces jitter but increases lag, Slope Cutoff Frequency must be > 0). Next, the body part is moved quickly in different directions while Speed Coefficient is increased with a focus on minimizing lag. First find the right order of magnitude to tune Speed Coefficient, which depends on the kind of data you manipulate and their units: do not hesitate to start with values like 0.001 or 0.0001. You can first multiply and divide Speed Coefficient by factor 10 until you notice an effect on latency when moving quickly. Note that parameters Speed Coefficient and Speed Coefficient have clear conceptual relationships: if high speed lag is a problem, increase Speed Coefficient. If slow speed jitter is a problem, decrease Slope Cutoff Frequency.

reference: Casiez, G., Roussel, N. and Vogel, D. (2012). 1€ Filter: A Simple Speed-based Low-pass Filter for Noisy Input in Interactive Systems



Parameters - Filter Page
Type type - ⊞ - There are seven types of filters:

Effect effect - The extent to which the filter affects the channel (0 - not at all, 1 - maximum effect).

Filter Width width - The amount of surrounding samples used in the calculation of the current sample. It is expressed in the Units.

Filter Width Unit widthunit - Choose between using Samples, Frames, or Seconds as the units for this parameter.

Spike Tolerance spike - For the De-spike filter type, this is the amount that a sample can differ from its neighbours without being considered a spike.

Ramp Tolerance ramptolerance - When using a Ramp Preserve filter, if the input value deviates from the current output ramp value by this much, then the ramp will reset to the new input value. Otherwise the Ramp Preserve will continue climbing at the specified 'Ramp Rate'.

Ramp Rate ramprate - When using a Ramp Preserve filter, this is the rate that the CHOP's output channel will increase. Only if the input channel value deviates from the desired output value by 'Ramp Tolerance' amount will the CHOP instead output the input channel value.

Number of Passes passes - The number of times the filter is applied to the channel.

Cutoff Frequency (Hz) cutoff - Decrease it if slow speed jitter is a problem.

Speed Coefficient speedcoeff - Increase if high speed lag is a problem.

Slope Cutoff Frequency (Hz) slopecutoff - Avoids high derivative bursts caused by jitter.

Slope Down Reset slopedownreset - When On resets (bypasses) the filter effect when the downward slope exceeds the Slope Down Max value to the right.

Slope Down Max slopedownmax - Set the maximum value of the slope downwards beyond which the filter resets when the toggle to the left is On.

Slope Up Reset slopeupreset - When On resets (bypasses) the filter effect when the upward slope exceeds the Slope Up Max value to the right.

Slope Up Max slopeupmax - Set the maximum value of the slope upwards beyond which the filter resets when the toggle to the left is On.

Reset reset - When On resets (bypasses) the filter effect.

Reset Pulse resetpulse - Instantly resets the filter effect.

Filter per Sample filterpersample - Applies the filter to each sample of the channel instead of across the whole channel. Useful for working with multi-sample channels.



Parameters - Common Page
Time Slice timeslice - Turning this on forces the channels to be "Time Sliced". A Time Slice is the time between the last cook frame and the current cook frame.

Scope scope - To determine which channels get affected, some CHOPs use a Scope string on the Common page. See Pattern Matching.

Sample Rate Match srselect - ⊞ - Handle cases where multiple input CHOPs' sample rates are different. When Resampling occurs, the curves are interpolated according to the Interpolation Method Option, or "Linear" if the Interpolate Options are not available.

Export Method exportmethod - ⊞ - This will determine how to connect the CHOP channel to the parameter. Refer to the Export article for more information.

Export Root autoexportroot - This path points to the root node where all of the paths that exporting by Channel Name is Path:Parameter are relative to.

Export Table exporttable - The DAT used to hold the export information when using the DAT Table Export Methods (See above).

Rename from commonrenamefrom - The channel pattern to rename. See Pattern Matching.

Rename to commonrenameto - The replacement pattern for the names. The default parameters do not rename the channels. See Pattern Replacement.
Example:

Channel Names: c[1-10:2] ambient
Rename From: c* ambient
Rename To: b[1-5] amb
This example fetches channels c1 c3 c5 c7 c9 and ambient.

They are then renamed to to b1 b2 b3 b4 b5 and amb.

See the Rename CHOP for a further description of rename patterns.



Operator Inputs
Input 0: -
Input 1: -


Info CHOP Channels
Extra Information for the Filter CHOP can be accessed via an Info CHOP.

Common CHOP Info Channels
start - Start of the CHOP interval in samples.
length - Number of samples in the CHOP.
sample_rate - The samplerate of the channels in frames per second.
num_channels - Number of channels in the CHOP.
time_slice - 1 if CHOP is Time Slice enabled, 0 otherwise.
export_sernum - A count of how often the export connections have been updated.
Common Operator Info Channels
total_cooks - Number of times the operator has cooked since the process started.
cook_time - Duration of the last cook in milliseconds.
cook_frame - Frame number when this operator was last cooked relative to the component timeline.
cook_abs_frame - Frame number when this operator was last cooked relative to the absolute time.
cook_start_time - Time in milliseconds at which the operator started cooking in the frame it was cooked.
cook_end_time - Time in milliseconds at which the operator finished cooking in the frame it was cooked.
cooked_this_frame - 1 if operator was cooked this frame.
warnings - Number of warnings in this operator if any.
errors - Number of errors in this operator if any.
