The Lag CHOP adds lag and overshoot to channels. It can also limit the velocity and acceleration of channels. Lag slows down rapid changes in the input channels. Overshoot amplifies the changes in the input channels.

Two values exist for each parameter. For example, in the Lag effect, when the input channel value is rising, the first lag parameter is used, and when the channel value is decreasing, the second lag parameter is used. This can give a quick rise, and a slow fall. But lag up and down are often kept at the same value.

Parameters - Lag Page
Method lagmethod - ⊞ - The method by which lag is applied to the channels.

Lag lag - ⊞ - Applies a lag to a channel. The first value is for lagging up, and the second is for lagging down. It is approximately the time that the output follows 90% of a change to the input.

Lag Unit lagunit - Choose between using Samples, Frames, or Seconds as the units for this parameter.

Overshoot overshoot - ⊞ - Applies overshoot to a channel. The first value is for overshoot while moving up, and the second is for overshoot while moving down.

Overshoot Unit overshootunit - Choose between using Samples, Frames, or Seconds as the units for this parameter.

Clamp Slope clamp - Clamps the slope (or velocity) to lie between the values listed in Max Slope below. Slope is expressed as value/Units.

Max Slope slope - ⊞ - The first value limits the slope when it is rising, and the second value limits the slope when it is decreasing.

Clamp Acceleration aclamp - Clamps the acceleration to lie between the values listed in Max Acceleration below. Acceleration is expressed as value/(Units*2) .

Max Acceleration accel - ⊞ - The first value limits the acceleration when it is rising, and the second value limits the acceleration when it is decreasing.

Lag per Sample lagsamples - Applies the lag to each sample of the channel instead of across the whole channel. Useful for working with multi-sample channels.

Reset reset - When On resets (bypasses) the lag effect.

Reset Pulse resetpulse - Instantly resets the lag effect.



Parameters - Common Page
Time Slice timeslice - Turning this on forces the channels to be "Time Sliced". A Time Slice is the time between the last cook frame and the current cook frame.

Scope scope - To determine which channels get affected, some CHOPs use a Scope string on the Common page. See Pattern Matching.

Sample Rate Match srselect - ⊞ - Handle cases where multiple input CHOPs' sample rates are different. When Resampling occurs, the curves are interpolated according to the Interpolation Method Option, or "Linear" if the Interpolate Options are not available.

Export Method exportmethod - ⊞ - This will determine how to connect the CHOP channel to the parameter. Refer to the Export article for more information.

Export Root autoexportroot - This path points to the root node where all of the paths that exporting by Channel Name is Path:Parameter are relative to.

Export Table exporttable - The DAT used to hold the export information when using the DAT Table Export Methods (See above).

Rename from commonrenamefrom - The channel pattern to rename. See Pattern Matching.

Rename to commonrenameto - The replacement pattern for the names. The default parameters do not rename the channels. See Pattern Replacement.
Example:

Channel Names: c[1-10:2] ambient
Rename From: c* ambient
Rename To: b[1-5] amb
This example fetches channels c1 c3 c5 c7 c9 and ambient.

They are then renamed to to b1 b2 b3 b4 b5 and amb.

See the Rename CHOP for a further description of rename patterns.



Operator Inputs
Input 0: -


Info CHOP Channels
Extra Information for the Lag CHOP can be accessed via an Info CHOP.

Common CHOP Info Channels
start - Start of the CHOP interval in samples.
length - Number of samples in the CHOP.
sample_rate - The samplerate of the channels in frames per second.
num_channels - Number of channels in the CHOP.
time_slice - 1 if CHOP is Time Slice enabled, 0 otherwise.
export_sernum - A count of how often the export connections have been updated.
Common Operator Info Channels
total_cooks - Number of times the operator has cooked since the process started.
cook_time - Duration of the last cook in milliseconds.
cook_frame - Frame number when this operator was last cooked relative to the component timeline.
cook_abs_frame - Frame number when this operator was last cooked relative to the absolute time.
cook_start_time - Time in milliseconds at which the operator started cooking in the frame it was cooked.
cook_end_time - Time in milliseconds at which the operator finished cooking in the frame it was cooked.
cooked_this_frame - 1 if operator was cooked this frame.
warnings - Number of warnings in this operator if any.
errors - Number of errors in this operator if any.
