The Logic CHOP first converts channels of all its input CHOPs into binary (0 = off, 1 = on) channels and then combines the channels using a variety of logic operations.

NOTE: The Logic CHOP is superceded by more convenient operators like the CHOP Execute DAT or the Text DAT which will run their scripts when CHOP channels change.

The Logic CHOP performs logic operations on the samples in CHOP channels. The channels of a CHOP can be combined into one channel, and several CHOPs can be combined into one CHOP.

With one input CHOP, you can invert the values of each sample. You can also do logic operations on the samples of one channel by the samples in the other channels, reducing N channels down to one. You can combine by applying an "or", "and", etc..

With two or more CHOP inputs, you can combine the channels in one CHOP with the channels in all the other CHOPs, reducing N CHOPs to 1.

To do math operations (add, multiply, ...) between channels or CHOPs, use the Math CHOP.

Parameters - Logic Page
Convert Input convert - ⊞ - This menu determines the method to convert inputs to binary:

Channel Pre OP preop - ⊞ - Once converted by the Convert Input stage, Channel Pre OP defines a unary operation on each input sample:

Combine Channels chanop - ⊞ - Takes the first input and combines its channels, then the second input and combines its channels, and so on.

Combine CHOPs chopop - ⊞ - Combine CHOPs combines the first channels of each CHOP, the second channels of each CHOP, etc.. Channels between inputs can be combined by number or name. Combining (Logic) Operations are:

Match by match - ⊞ - Channels are matched between inputs by Channel Name or Channel Number.

Align align - ⊞ - Inputs that don't start at the same frame can be aligned. Se the section, Align Options.

Bounds bound - ⊞ - Set lower and upper bounds for when Convert Input is set to Off When Outside Bounds.



Parameters - Common Page
Time Slice timeslice - Turning this on forces the channels to be "Time Sliced". A Time Slice is the time between the last cook frame and the current cook frame.

Scope scope - To determine which channels get affected, some CHOPs use a Scope string on the Common page. See Pattern Matching.

Sample Rate Match srselect - ⊞ - Handle cases where multiple input CHOPs' sample rates are different. When Resampling occurs, the curves are interpolated according to the Interpolation Method Option, or "Linear" if the Interpolate Options are not available.

Export Method exportmethod - ⊞ - This will determine how to connect the CHOP channel to the parameter. Refer to the Export article for more information.

Export Root autoexportroot - This path points to the root node where all of the paths that exporting by Channel Name is Path:Parameter are relative to.

Export Table exporttable - The DAT used to hold the export information when using the DAT Table Export Methods (See above).

Rename from commonrenamefrom - The channel pattern to rename. See Pattern Matching.

Rename to commonrenameto - The replacement pattern for the names. The default parameters do not rename the channels. See Pattern Replacement.
Example:

Channel Names: c[1-10:2] ambient
Rename From: c* ambient
Rename To: b[1-5] amb
This example fetches channels c1 c3 c5 c7 c9 and ambient.

They are then renamed to to b1 b2 b3 b4 b5 and amb.

See the Rename CHOP for a further description of rename patterns.



Operator Inputs
Input 0: -


Info CHOP Channels
Extra Information for the Logic CHOP can be accessed via an Info CHOP.

Common CHOP Info Channels
start - Start of the CHOP interval in samples.
length - Number of samples in the CHOP.
sample_rate - The samplerate of the channels in frames per second.
num_channels - Number of channels in the CHOP.
time_slice - 1 if CHOP is Time Slice enabled, 0 otherwise.
export_sernum - A count of how often the export connections have been updated.
Common Operator Info Channels
total_cooks - Number of times the operator has cooked since the process started.
cook_time - Duration of the last cook in milliseconds.
cook_frame - Frame number when this operator was last cooked relative to the component timeline.
cook_abs_frame - Frame number when this operator was last cooked relative to the absolute time.
cook_start_time - Time in milliseconds at which the operator started cooking in the frame it was cooked.
cook_end_time - Time in milliseconds at which the operator finished cooking in the frame it was cooked.
cooked_this_frame - 1 if operator was cooked this frame.
warnings - Number of warnings in this operator if any.
errors - Number of errors in this operator if any.