The Lookup CHOP outputs values from a lookup table. The first input (the Index Channel) is an index into the second input (the Lookup Table). Lookup outputs interpolated values from the lookup table.

Both the Index and Lookup Tables can contain any number of channels.

An Index sample with value 0 maps to the beginning (first sample) of the lookup table, and an index sample with value of 1 maps to the end (last sample) of the lookup table.

The output CHOP is the same length as the Index input. It is the same number of channels as the Lookup Table input, and has the same channel names as the Lookup Table input. The output is filled with the data extracted from the lookup tables. Indexes that fall between two lookup table samples are interpolated. The lookup table can be sampled outside its range.

NOTE: The Extend Conditions of the lookup table are used in this case where the index is less than 0 or greater than 1.

The sample rate of the output is the sample rate of the Index input.

The Lookup CHOP can be used to fetch values from a color lookup table, where a single index produces red, green and blue channels. It can also be used for rolloff or decay tables, where it specifies how much a parameter drops with distance.

Parameters - Lookup Page
Index Range index - ⊞ - The Index Range maps the index channel's values to the lookup table's start and end and defaults to 0 and 1. The first parameter represents the start of the lookup table. When the index channel has this value, it will index the start of the lookup table. The second parameter represents the end of the lookup table and behaves in the same way.

Cyclic Range cyclic - ⊞ - Adapts the range of the Lookup Table (2nd input) for cyclic or non-cyclic input indices. When using a cyclic input index (1st input), the lookup value for index 0.0 and 1.0 result in the same value. To avoid this, set Cyclic Range to Yes and the lookup will cycle smoothly.

Per Index Channel chanmatch - ⊞ - Determines how index channels are mapped to lookup Channel tables.

Match by match - ⊞ - Determines how index channels are matched with a lookup channel in 'One Lookup Table Channel' mode.

Interpolate interp - When on, the input can be interpolated between samples. When off, the nearest sample is used.

Extend Left left - ⊞ - The left extend conditions (before/after range) for the lookup output.

Extend Right right - ⊞ - The right extend conditions (before/after range) for the lookup output.

Default Value defval - The value used for the Default Value extend condition.



Parameters - Common Page
Time Slice timeslice - Turning this on forces the channels to be "Time Sliced". A Time Slice is the time between the last cook frame and the current cook frame.

Scope scope - To determine which channels get affected, some CHOPs use a Scope string on the Common page. See Pattern Matching.

Sample Rate Match srselect - ⊞ - Handle cases where multiple input CHOPs' sample rates are different. When Resampling occurs, the curves are interpolated according to the Interpolation Method Option, or "Linear" if the Interpolate Options are not available.

Export Method exportmethod - ⊞ - This will determine how to connect the CHOP channel to the parameter. Refer to the Export article for more information.

Export Root autoexportroot - This path points to the root node where all of the paths that exporting by Channel Name is Path:Parameter are relative to.

Export Table exporttable - The DAT used to hold the export information when using the DAT Table Export Methods (See above).

Rename from commonrenamefrom - The channel pattern to rename. See Pattern Matching.

Rename to commonrenameto - The replacement pattern for the names. The default parameters do not rename the channels. See Pattern Replacement.
Example:

Channel Names: c[1-10:2] ambient
Rename From: c* ambient
Rename To: b[1-5] amb
This example fetches channels c1 c3 c5 c7 c9 and ambient.

They are then renamed to to b1 b2 b3 b4 b5 and amb.

See the Rename CHOP for a further description of rename patterns.



Operator Inputs
Input 0: -
Input 1: -


Info CHOP Channels
Extra Information for the Lookup CHOP can be accessed via an Info CHOP.

Common CHOP Info Channels
start - Start of the CHOP interval in samples.
length - Number of samples in the CHOP.
sample_rate - The samplerate of the channels in frames per second.
num_channels - Number of channels in the CHOP.
time_slice - 1 if CHOP is Time Slice enabled, 0 otherwise.
export_sernum - A count of how often the export connections have been updated.
Common Operator Info Channels
total_cooks - Number of times the operator has cooked since the process started.
cook_time - Duration of the last cook in milliseconds.
cook_frame - Frame number when this operator was last cooked relative to the component timeline.
cook_abs_frame - Frame number when this operator was last cooked relative to the absolute time.
cook_start_time - Time in milliseconds at which the operator started cooking in the frame it was cooked.
cook_end_time - Time in milliseconds at which the operator finished cooking in the frame it was cooked.
cooked_this_frame - 1 if operator was cooked this frame.
warnings - Number of warnings in this operator if any.
errors - Number of errors in this operator if any.
