The Math CHOP performs arithmetic operations on channels. The channels of a CHOP can be combined into one channel, and several CHOPs can be combined into one CHOP.

The OP page lets you pre-operate on each sample, like making all samples positive or taking the square of each sample.

Using Combine Channels, for an input CHOP with multi-channels, you can multiply the samples of one channel by the samples in the other channels, reducing N channels down to one. You can combine them by multiplying, adding, finding the maximum, etc..

Using Combine CHOPs, where there are two or more CHOP inputs, you can multiply (or add, etc.) the channels in one CHOP with the channels in all the other CHOPs, reducing N CHOPs to 1. (otherwise channels of multi-inputs are just merged)

You can then post-operate on the resulting samples - negate, square root, etc.

Then using the Mult-Add page it can offset and scale the values of each sample.

More conveniently you can use the Range page to do linear scaling as well by setting an output low-high range for a certain input low-high range.

Finally, you can round the resulting values off to an integer.

Tip: You can affect only certain channels of your input by using the Scope parameter on the Common page.

Note: To do logic operations (and, or, ...) between channels or CHOPs, use the Logic CHOP.

Tip: Customizing each channel:: You can use the local member chanIndex in a parameter like Post-Add, for example, me.chanIndex*2 to give a different post-add value for each channel. chanIndex is available in numerous CHOPs like the Pattern CHOP. (expressions are non-optimized)


Parameters - OP Page
The four steps are performed in the following order:

Channel Pre OP preop - ⊞ - Unary operations can be performed on individual channels. A menu of unary operations (as described above) that are performed on each channel as it comes in to the Math CHOP include:

Combine Channels chanop - ⊞ - A choice of operations is performed between the channels of an input CHOP, for each input. The Nth sample of one channel is combined with the Nth sample of other channels:

Combine CHOPs chopop - ⊞ - A menu of operations that is performed between the input CHOPs, combining several CHOPs into one.

Channel Post OP postop - ⊞ - A menu (same as Channel Pre OP) is performed as the finale stage upon the channels resulting from the above operations.

Match by match - ⊞ - Match channels between inputs by name or index.

Align align - ⊞ - This menu handles cases where multiple input CHOPs have different start or end times. All channels output from a CHOP share the same start/end interval, so the inputs must be treated with the Align Options:

Interp Pars per Sample interppars - Use this option when the input is a higher frequency than the timeline (example: audio). It will avoid any pops or crackles in the output when adjusting the multiply, add or range parameters.

Integer integer - ⊞ - The resulting values can be converted to integer.



Parameters - Mult-Add Page
The three steps are next performed in the following order:

Pre-Add preoff - First, add the value to each sample of each channel.

Multiply gain - Then multiply by this value.

Post-Add postoff - Then add this value.



Parameters - Range Page
This is the final step prior to output.

From Range fromrange - ⊞ - Another way to multiply/add. Converts from one low-high range to another range.

To Range torange - ⊞ - Another way to multiply/add. Converts from one low-high range to another range.



Parameters - Common Page
Time Slice timeslice - Turning this on forces the channels to be "Time Sliced". A Time Slice is the time between the last cook frame and the current cook frame.

Scope scope - To determine which channels get affected, some CHOPs use a Scope string on the Common page. See Pattern Matching.

Sample Rate Match srselect - ⊞ - Handle cases where multiple input CHOPs' sample rates are different. When Resampling occurs, the curves are interpolated according to the Interpolation Method Option, or "Linear" if the Interpolate Options are not available.

Export Method exportmethod - ⊞ - This will determine how to connect the CHOP channel to the parameter. Refer to the Export article for more information.

Export Root autoexportroot - This path points to the root node where all of the paths that exporting by Channel Name is Path:Parameter are relative to.

Export Table exporttable - The DAT used to hold the export information when using the DAT Table Export Methods (See above).

Rename from commonrenamefrom - The channel pattern to rename. See Pattern Matching.

Rename to commonrenameto - The replacement pattern for the names. The default parameters do not rename the channels. See Pattern Replacement.
Example:

Channel Names: c[1-10:2] ambient
Rename From: c* ambient
Rename To: b[1-5] amb
This example fetches channels c1 c3 c5 c7 c9 and ambient.

They are then renamed to to b1 b2 b3 b4 b5 and amb.

See the Rename CHOP for a further description of rename patterns.



Operator Inputs
Input 0: -


Info CHOP Channels
Extra Information for the Math CHOP can be accessed via an Info CHOP.

Common CHOP Info Channels
start - Start of the CHOP interval in samples.
length - Number of samples in the CHOP.
sample_rate - The samplerate of the channels in frames per second.
num_channels - Number of channels in the CHOP.
time_slice - 1 if CHOP is Time Slice enabled, 0 otherwise.
export_sernum - A count of how often the export connections have been updated.
Common Operator Info Channels
total_cooks - Number of times the operator has cooked since the process started.
cook_time - Duration of the last cook in milliseconds.
cook_frame - Frame number when this operator was last cooked relative to the component timeline.
cook_abs_frame - Frame number when this operator was last cooked relative to the absolute time.
cook_start_time - Time in milliseconds at which the operator started cooking in the frame it was cooked.
cook_end_time - Time in milliseconds at which the operator finished cooking in the frame it was cooked.
cooked_this_frame - 1 if operator was cooked this frame.
warnings - Number of warnings in this operator if any.
errors - Number of errors in this operator if any.